README.md, before:

# QuickJS JavaScript Engine

![QuickJS Build Matrix](https://github.com/napi-bindings/quickjs-build/workflows/QuickJS%20Build%20Matrix/badge.svg?branch=master)

## Version 2021-03-27

- [Introduction](#introduction)
- [Building](#building)
- [Code of conduct](CODE_OF_CONDUCT)
- [Team](#team)
- [References](#references)
- [Acknowledgments](#acknowledgements)
- [License](#license)

## Introduction

**QuickJS** is a small and embeddable Javascript engine. It supports the **[ES2020](https://tc39.github.io/ecma262/)**
 specification including modules, asynchronous generators, proxies and BigInt.

It optionally supports mathematical extensions such as big decimal floating point
numbers (BigDecimal), big binary floating point numbers (BigFloat) and operator
overloading.

### Main Features:

- Small and easily embeddable: just a few **C** files, no external dependency,
**210 KiB** of x86 code for a simple hello world program.
- Fast interpreter with very low startup time: runs the 69000 tests of the
**[ECMAScript Test Suite](https://github.com/tc39/test262)** in about 95 seconds on a
single core of a desktop PC. The complete life cycle of a runtime instance
completes in less than 300 microseconds.
- Almost complete **[ES2020](https://tc39.github.io/ecma262/)** support including
modules, asynchronous generators and full Annex B support (legacy web
compatibility).
- Passes nearly 100% of the
**[ECMAScript Test Suite](https://github.com/tc39/test262)** tests when selecting the
ES2020 features.
- Can compile Javascript sources to executables with no external dependency.
- Garbage collection using reference counting (to reduce memory usage and have
deterministic behavior) with cycle removal.
- Mathematical extensions: **BigDecimal**, **BigFloat**, **operator overloading**,
**bigint mode**, **math mode**.
- Command line interpreter with contextual colorization implemented in Javascript.
- Small built-in standard library with **C** library wrappers.

This reposistory is a mrirror of the original work that you can find **[here](https://bellard.org/quickjs/)**.

## Building

The main purpose of this reposistory is to build **QuickJS** static library
that you could include on your **C / C++** project.
On release you can find the build for the following operating systems:

- **Windows**
- **Ubuntu 20.04**
- **Ubuntu 18.04**
- **Linux arm64**
- **macOS**

If you want to build the QuickJS library on your own the first step is to clone
this repository:

`> git clone https://github.com/napi-bindings/quickjs-build.git`

### Building on Windows

You will need to install **GCC** for Windows and **CMake**.

#### Install GCC compiler

- Download the mingw from this **[link](https://sourceforge.net/projects/mingw-w64/)**.
- Be sure that **gcc** in in your path of execution.

#### Install CMake

- Download the right version for your system from this **[link](https://cmake.org/download/)**.
- Be sure that **cmake** is in your path of execution.

#### Configure and build

Open your shell and execute the commands reported below:

```
mkdir ./build
cmake \
-DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Release \
-G "MinGW Makefiles" \
-S ./ \
-B ./build
cmake --build ./build
```

`-DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE` could be set with one of the following two values:

- Release
- Debug

### Building on Unix-like platform

You will need to install **C / C++** compiler and **CMake**.

#### Prerequisistes to build on Linux

These steps were tested on:

- **Ubuntu 18.04**
- **Ubuntu 20.04**

First, you will need to install dependencies:

```
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install build-essential -y
sudo apt-get install cmake -y
```

#### Prerequisites to build on macOS

These steps were tested on macOS Catalina (10.15).

First, you will need to install dependencies:

- Install [Xcode](https://developer.apple.com/xcode/download/)
   - You also need to install the `XCode Command Line Tools` by running
   `xcode-select --install`. Alternatively, if you already have the full Xcode
   installed, you can find them under the menu
   `Xcode -> Open Developer Tool -> More Developer Tools...`. This step will
   install `clang`, `clang++`, and `make`.
- Install [Homebrew](https://brew.sh/)
- Install and `cmake` running the following command:
```
brew install cmake
```

#### Configure and build

Open your shell and execute the commands reported below:

```
mkdir ./build
cmake \
-DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Release \
-G "Unix Makefiles" \
-S ./ \
-B ./build
cmake --build ./build
```

`-DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE` could be set with one of the following two values:

- Release
- Debug

## References

- **QuickJS** documentation [HTML version](https://bellard.org/quickjs/quickjs.html), [PDF version](https://bellard.org/quickjs/quickjs.pdf).
- Specification of the JavaScript **Bignum Extensions**: [HTML version](https://bellard.org/quickjs/jsbignum.html), [PDF version](https://bellard.org/quickjs/jsbignum.pdf).
- [Writing native modules in C for QuickJS](https://medium.com/@calbertts/writing-native-modules-in-c-for-quickjs-engine-49043587f2e2).
- [How to create asynchronous code for QuickJS](https://medium.com/@calbertts/how-to-create-asynchronous-apis-for-quickjs-8aca5488bb2e).

## Team

### Nicola Del Gobbo

<https://github.com/NickNaso/>

<https://www.npmjs.com/~nicknaso>

<https://twitter.com/NickNaso>

## Acknowledgements

Thank you to all people that encourage me every day.

## License

Licensed under [Apache license V2](./LICENSE)

Commit message:

Change library to support WASI

README.md, after:

# QuickJS JavaScript Engine

> **This is a standalone version of the QuickJS engine that compiles to WebAssembly with WASI support.**
> 
> Well... f*ck CMake. It's so freaking hard to use, yet it's probably the only choice available if 
> you don't want to hand-craft makefiles and adapt for all those messy things that changes from 
> system to system.
>
> It would be nice if you can come up with a build script for another build system, probably XMake.
> I don't have time to do so anyway.

---

![QuickJS Build Matrix](https://github.com/napi-bindings/quickjs-build/workflows/QuickJS%20Build%20Matrix/badge.svg?branch=master)

## Version 2021-03-27

- [QuickJS JavaScript Engine](#quickjs-javascript-engine)
  - [Version 2021-03-27](#version-2021-03-27)
  - [Introduction](#introduction)
    - [Main Features:](#main-features)
  - [Building](#building)
    - [Building on Windows](#building-on-windows)
    - [Building on Unix-like platform](#building-on-unix-like-platform)
  - [References](#references)
  - [Team](#team)
    - [Nicola Del Gobbo](#nicola-del-gobbo)
  - [Acknowledgements](#acknowledgements)
  - [License](#license)

## Introduction

**QuickJS** is a small and embeddable Javascript engine. It supports the **[ES2020](https://tc39.github.io/ecma262/)**
 specification including modules, asynchronous generators, proxies and BigInt.

It optionally supports mathematical extensions such as big decimal floating point
numbers (BigDecimal), big binary floating point numbers (BigFloat) and operator
overloading.

### Main Features:

- Small and easily embeddable: just a few **C** files, no external dependency,
**210 KiB** of x86 code for a simple hello world program.
- Fast interpreter with very low startup time: runs the 69000 tests of the
**[ECMAScript Test Suite](https://github.com/tc39/test262)** in about 95 seconds on a
single core of a desktop PC. The complete life cycle of a runtime instance
completes in less than 300 microseconds.
- Almost complete **[ES2020](https://tc39.github.io/ecma262/)** support including
modules, asynchronous generators and full Annex B support (legacy web
compatibility).
- Passes nearly 100% of the
**[ECMAScript Test Suite](https://github.com/tc39/test262)** tests when selecting the
ES2020 features.
- Can compile Javascript sources to executables with no external dependency.
- Garbage collection using reference counting (to reduce memory usage and have
deterministic behavior) with cycle removal.
- Mathematical extensions: **BigDecimal**, **BigFloat**, **operator overloading**,
**bigint mode**, **math mode**.
- Command line interpreter with contextual colorization implemented in Javascript.
- Small built-in standard library with **C** library wrappers.

This reposistory is a mrirror of the original work that you can find **[here](https://bellard.org/quickjs/)**.

## Building

The main purpose of this reposistory is to build **QuickJS** static library
that you could include on your **C / C++** project.
On release you can find the build for the following operating systems:

- **Windows**
- **Ubuntu 20.04**
- **Ubuntu 18.04**
- **Linux arm64**
- **macOS**

If you want to build the QuickJS library on your own the first step is to clone
this repository:

`> git clone https://github.com/napi-bindings/quickjs-build.git`

### Building on Windows

You will need to install **GCC** for Windows and **CMake**.

#### Install GCC compiler

- Download the mingw from this **[link](https://sourceforge.net/projects/mingw-w64/)**.
- Be sure that **gcc** in in your path of execution.

#### Install CMake

- Download the right version for your system from this **[link](https://cmake.org/download/)**.
- Be sure that **cmake** is in your path of execution.

#### Configure and build

Open your shell and execute the commands reported below:

```
mkdir ./build
cmake \
-DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Release \
-G "MinGW Makefiles" \
-S ./ \
-B ./build
cmake --build ./build
```

`-DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE` could be set with one of the following two values:

- Release
- Debug

### Building on Unix-like platform

You will need to install **C / C++** compiler and **CMake**.

#### Prerequisistes to build on Linux

These steps were tested on:

- **Ubuntu 18.04**
- **Ubuntu 20.04**

First, you will need to install dependencies:

```
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install build-essential -y
sudo apt-get install cmake -y
```

#### Prerequisites to build on macOS

These steps were tested on macOS Catalina (10.15).

First, you will need to install dependencies:

- Install [Xcode](https://developer.apple.com/xcode/download/)
   - You also need to install the `XCode Command Line Tools` by running
   `xcode-select --install`. Alternatively, if you already have the full Xcode
   installed, you can find them under the menu
   `Xcode -> Open Developer Tool -> More Developer Tools...`. This step will
   install `clang`, `clang++`, and `make`.
- Install [Homebrew](https://brew.sh/)
- Install and `cmake` running the following command:
```
brew install cmake
```

#### Configure and build

Open your shell and execute the commands reported below:

```
mkdir ./build
cmake \
-DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Release \
-G "Unix Makefiles" \
-S ./ \
-B ./build
cmake --build ./build
```

`-DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE` could be set with one of the following two values:

- Release
- Debug

## References

- **QuickJS** documentation [HTML version](https://bellard.org/quickjs/quickjs.html), [PDF version](https://bellard.org/quickjs/quickjs.pdf).
- Specification of the JavaScript **Bignum Extensions**: [HTML version](https://bellard.org/quickjs/jsbignum.html), [PDF version](https://bellard.org/quickjs/jsbignum.pdf).
- [Writing native modules in C for QuickJS](https://medium.com/@calbertts/writing-native-modules-in-c-for-quickjs-engine-49043587f2e2).
- [How to create asynchronous code for QuickJS](https://medium.com/@calbertts/how-to-create-asynchronous-apis-for-quickjs-8aca5488bb2e).

## Team

### Nicola Del Gobbo

<https://github.com/NickNaso/>

<https://www.npmjs.com/~nicknaso>

<https://twitter.com/NickNaso>

## Acknowledgements

Thank you to all people that encourage me every day.

## License

Licensed under [Apache license V2](./LICENSE)
